So we're on, and we're talking to Susan.
Okay.
So we can just chat a bit, if you don't mind, about a little background.
Between gulps of muffin.
I'm going to grab one of these myself, if I may.
This looks wonderful.
Sure.
A little bit on the sticky side.
I'll be transcribing this.
I was looking at Patience and Fortitude yesterday, which I have to confess, I haven't read all the way through, but I reread your
acknowledgments.
It's funny how many people we know in common.
Read the acknowledgments in general.
It's a continuation of the same, that same circle of people.
But this is really more library-oriented, this book here.
Right.
Of the twelve chapters, seven are definitely library chapters.
That's great.
I'm glad HarperCollins wants to publish it.
Well, he did, um,
It's got 30,000 copies in print.
That's wonderful.
Perfect.
You know, and the high cover is being delayed.
I don't have to.
Now we start.
As soon as we see one number move.
I don't have to do that, but there you go.
You got a theory as to what's going to happen.
Well, you know that I like science and speculative fiction.
And I had been tweeting Star Trek, which is one of my favorite shows,
as fiction, purely fiction.
Just that.
And a way to, as my husband says, rot my mind.
And then I realized that the way things are moving, when you see Jean-Luc Picard, captain of the Enterprise, dealing with information by talking to a computer and getting information from a computer, that's already happening.
And I'm convinced that over the
years, and it may not be centuries, it may be decades, we'll see most of the information that we use converted to electronic form.
But that then, when Jean-Luc Picard goes back to his cabin to relax, he picks up a book and reads it.
I think so, and that's what I say in my new book.
I quote Billington, in fact.
And he says, I think that what all of this electronic stuff that's
going on will accomplish, is that the printed book now has the opportunity to achieve its true potential.
And then I quote none other than Charles Lamb, you know, but he said, I'll read anything, I'll read any book.
He said, well, first of all, let me tell you what I think a book is.
And he excludes almanacs, he excludes all of these, you know, reference things, but we're talking in the early 1800s, 200 years ago.
What's different from what he's saying there than what we say today?
Nothing.
I don't use telephone.
I throw you all my telephone books.
I can get anybody I want anywhere in America.
I just, it was wonderful.
I had all these phone books from Washington, New York.
Threw them all away.
MapQuest that you went on to yesterday.
Encyclopedia stuff.
Better, because you can constantly update it.
Right.
But to read the pleasure of a book.
And then I have a chapter on paratextual elements.
Jeanette's book on paratexts.
It's going to be a fun book.
I think it's going to be really, where the artifact really has to be part of the package.
Sure.
Where it goes beyond just the text.
You know, we're going to have any number of examples.
That was your kind of point.
I had the luck with you there.
Well, that's basically it.
Well, no, there's another piece to it.
I started working at Harvard in 1963, and at first,
I filed cards in the catalog.
That was before I got my master's degree, before I realized that I did like libraries.
And then once I got into library school, they were forming their first systems office, and for some reason they asked me to be the first member of that systems office.
Do you know Dick DeGennaro?
He was the director of the New York Public Library for a while, and he was at Harvard earlier, and then he was later.
He retired finally from Harvard about five years ago or six years ago.
But he was in charge of the systems office, and I reported to him, but he wasn't doing systems work.
He was just sort of overseeing what I was doing.
And at that time, nobody thought you could convert a whole car catalog.
It was just too much to do.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
You couldn't convert a whole card catalog.
It was just too much to do.
And this was in the 60s.
This was in the 60s.
And so there was all this discussion about, well, since we didn't have the ability to convert the whole catalog, how would we do it?
Would we do certain subject areas, or would we do the most used books, which would be a weird thing?
Or should we do... But that theory's still in play in many places, though.
Well, as far as catalogs are concerned,
If Harvard can convert its entire catalog, anyone can convert its entire catalog.
Sure, 2.1 million books at the last census.
Right.
So, you know, that feeling of not being able to do it because it's too large a task, just with the changes in technology and improvements, it just went down the tubes.
It's no longer an issue.
I'm convinced that the same thing's going to happen with full text.
Really?
Yeah.
Over a longer period of time, because it is a bigger problem,
Well, you think there will come a point where every text will be digitized?
Yeah, I think so.
Or, yes.
Really?
Or at least imaged.
And then what's going to happen to the hardcovers?
Well, I think there will still be hardcover, and maybe I'm just being, you know, a perennial optimist here, but it's still much easier to read a book than it is to read a screen.
And that's why I make the distinction that it's made of Star Trek.
Sure, but that didn't save the newspaper itself.
That attitude, not that I'm agreeing with Baker here, I mean, I don't think you can keep every newspaper that's ever been printed, but that attitude still didn't prevail.
I mean, the cost element here in the storage thing, people are going to see that you can put a whole library into a computer.
Well, partly it's going to be market-driven.
And industry-driven.
And once the industry does, you know, turns a corner and does even more and more that's, as we call it, born electronic, you know, at some point there's going to be more going back.
Do you know Kevin Guthrie?
I've interviewed him.
Yeah.
He'll be in the next book.
The same book.
He's a good friend.
It's a pretty fun book.
I think I'm talking to the right people, but I just think so.
Oh, it sounds that way, yeah.
Yeah, so go ahead.
So he's, JSTOR is a good example of probably the first effort to really go back and do from the beginning of core material.
And it's not hypertext.
It's actually the regular page.
It's both.
It's both now?
Yeah, it's both full-text searchable and image.
But I still don't like to read it on the screen.
No, no.
And I can't imagine, but I think that's just my own 20th and 21st century outlook on life.
I can't imagine being comfortable reading on a screen.
But I suspect that if you asked a six- or seven-year-old, you'd get a different answer.
Read that article.
The assumption is that, oh, they're too busy to go to the library.
Such a bore, you know, to go and take the book out and to read it.
It's, uh, they'd much rather get the text, and then when you have to get the book, a machine's gonna get it for you.
Something's wrong there, but... Yeah.
And I've got two daughters, both in college.
Nothing amazes me more than to see them sit up there.
I feel like I'm talking to them, but I'm not, but we're talking to them.
You know, we're IMing, you know, this instant messaging thing.
Mm-hmm.
And so Nicole will be doing her homework.
I know she's got her earphones on, listening to her music.
She's doing her homework, she's listening to music, and she's carrying on a conversation with me.
I mean, that's multitasking.
If I'm reading, I'm reading.
If I'm working, as much as I love music, it is a distraction to me.
I don't know about yourself.
I mean, if you're trying to do some very serious writing, do you have music on in the background?
I can't do that.
I don't now.
But when you were a kid, didn't you study with music on?
I did.
And so we wanted to avoid, you know, to escape doing what had to be done.
But exactly, of course we did.
And we did call our friends and talk on the telephone and, you know, click the phone like this and whatever you're doing.
But it's a fascinating, and who knows?
As a final analysis, who knows?
I have to say, I went to the University of Arizona a couple months ago.
I went down there to get a brand new building.
Fabulous.
I mean, even the benches outside are wired.
You can go out with your laptop, sit outside, and you can plug into the bench.
And they call it the information comment.
They even call it a library.
But you know what?
I was there during term.
It was mobbed, and it was mobbed, and it was the social center, and they had little things going on over here, and kids were, they had little areas where they were in there doing this.
And then I went over to the library, and I was like,
But, you know, where the books are.
I was very, I was down a little bit, because I said, I said, please assure me.
I said, are the kids using the books?
They said, oh, yeah, they're using the books.
You wouldn't be kidding me.
I mean, they are using the books.
Everything's not going on over there, I hope.
I said, they were using the books.
Who's responsible for the information commons?
Is it the library, or is it the computer center?
It's part of the library.
Oh, that's good.
But it's physically separate.
That's too bad.
No, it's connected.
It's just they built their joins, but it's a different building, and you kind of walk through a courtyard, and you go, but they're not the same building.
But the fellow who was walking me around was the guy who raised money for, and he works for a library, so I have to ask a question, but I do believe it's all under one umbrella.
Yeah.
I think.
But it was very impressive.
What can I say?
Well, at Georgetown, we just
took the former audio-visual department and renovated it with a gift from an alumnus, and put together the former multimedia center, the computing center, the AV stuff.
We upgraded it with closed carols where you can do music, you can perform, you can compose, all that kind of thing.
It's constantly occupied.
But it's right there in the middle of the library, so the library's getting a lot of use, too.
You probably have a CV that you can email me or something like that.
Oh, yes.
You shouldn't have to go through the whole thing, but just, if you could ... You said you went to library school, and where did you go to library?
I went to Simmons.
You went to Simmons.
The only library school in New England at the time.
I worked at Harvard for ten years, most of the time in the systems office.
And then I went to Berkeley as head of the library systems office.
I worked for Dick Doherty, if you know him.
He used to be University of Michigan.
Then I was hired by Hopkins to be the director of the library.
I was there for nine years.
I went to the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science as the executive director for two years, which was enough.
I'm glad I did it, and I'm glad I left.
Working for the government was difficult.
And then I went to Georgetown, and I was there for 11 years.
Wow.
And so now you're a consultant.
I'm a consultant.
And what does a consultant do?
I do all kinds of things.
I write.
I just did a consulting job for WACO, the Worcester Area Cooperating Libraries.
I teach.
I taught academic librarianship at Simmons this past semester.
I consult on development, because I did a lot of fundraising at both Hopkins and Georgetown.
I'm actually trying to not work quite that much, because I'm having so much fun doing other things.
I'm being a member of the Sweet Adelines Chorus that's local here, and being involved with the public library.
I'm also doing some work for an organization that's headquartered at Kent State that is a consortium of programs of teacher education for the deaf.
And they have a three-year government grant.
They're approaching their third year, and they're trying to figure out where they're going to get funding for in the future.
And so that's development.
And in fact, I'm doing my last couple of days of work for them just this week, helping them identify foundations where they might reasonably have a chance of getting at least a hearing.
when they approach them with what their program is.
But what do you hear out there?
And this is almost becoming a tedious exercise, this debate.
But what do you hear about the books?
I mean, is it...it's no longer the people...is it a smart thing to say that the book is going to be replaced totally by the electronic stuff?
But you can see where people are going.
Yeah, but anybody who says that books are going to be replaced, I consider, frankly, a little bit naive.
Right, and I have a chapter in my book, Patients and Fortitude, which I call In the Facts, and it's about academic libraries.
And while I state flat out that the best colleges and universities today, the finest, we can make this as a statement, one of the factors that go into this recognition is the fact that they have extraordinarily good libraries.
Right.
And collections of depth.
not only size, liberal arts colleges, as well as university graduate programs.
Right.
Flat out.
And then look at Duke.
That thing I have in there about Duke trying to raise their ARL ranking just a little bit.
How is this going to help us?
What kind of outweigh are we going to need to catch whomever, you know?
That's right.
And B.C.
to get into.
B.C.
I wrote it, but I have it.
G.W.
Same thing.
to get into that.
Last year.
Good.
University of Louisville just got in.
I suspect that they went through the same process.
I've never been on that committee, but I know that it's a very lengthy process.
So that's not reversing in any way, is it?
No, partly because ARL, as the leader, has not yet found a way to measure, and measurement is how you compare.
They haven't found a way to measure the quality, measure quality rather than quantity.
we've been talking about it i was on the statistics committee for quite a number of years and there are clearly ways in which you can do it and remember title 2c it was a department of education program that was designed to support research collections that's back that's a long time ago 60s 70s oh no it was more recent than that i think it started probably started in the 70s 70s but it didn't stop until the mid 90s they gave them money to go out and get books
Or to provide access.
So they would give money for conversion of catalogs at one point in time.
That was real bad.
And then it moved more towards preservation, just as NEH did.
But they had a very nice way.
They would only give to research libraries.
And they had a few questions there to determine researchness, which involved things like, to what extent the library was used by people other than your own community.
You mean your academic community?
Yeah.
How much it was used by others outside, people from other universities, people from other countries, universities from other countries.
What kinds of research, what kind of publications were produced as a result primarily of, or in large part, of research in your collection?
Interesting.
Yeah, it is.
sort of leading in the right direction of quantity, I mean, quality rather than quantity, but we haven't yet been able to.
Yeah, Duane talks about that in that chapter that I have.
If you have a chance to read that chapter, I think you'll like that, because it really is an academic library, and again, people that you know talking about this stuff in there.
What was, let's just talk a little bit about Ruth Baker.
your reaction when that book came out last.
I mean, just say anything you want, you know, and I'm looking for controversy.
I'm really not going to do a great takeout on this thing, but I do have to address this.
I guess what upset me, what offended me, really, about that is this demonization of librarians.
These are the most accommodating people in the world.
To make them the enemy is absurd.
You know, to make fun of...
Not Bellington, but his predecessor, Borsington, with bow ties, you know.
I mean, this is ... And he's not even a librarian.
And he's not even a librarian, that's right.
And neither is Bellington.
That's right, yeah.
You know, and ... But anyway, why don't we enter the conversation on that a little bit?
Well, the first thing is to be insulted by it, for exactly that reason.
For which reason?
Well, why don't you articulate it?
Being insulted as a librarian.
because I'm being accused of doing something that sounds professionally reprehensible, but in fact, it just makes good sense.
I mean, when we lived in California, we started subscribing to the Chronicle of Higher Education, and my husband would pile up the issues.
This is the year that I was in Maryland, and he still had to stay in California for a year, and I would come
back to California once a month, and I'd look at this pile, and you could see the color, not only grown, but you could see the colors, and you could see the gradual shading from the white newspaper color at the top down to sort of orange at the bottom.
It's like an archaeological site.
Yeah.
Well, you just knew that over a period of a very short number of weeks, this paper is just not credible any longer.
It's fragile.
It just disappeared.
So there's a need.
If you're going to have
The content, you have to replace it with something.
You have to reformat it, or either have it in microform, which everybody hates, but we know is a durable medium, or electronics, which still, it's presumably durable, but it has... It has to be migrated.
Yeah, that's the problem.
Somebody has to be, oh, we get the switch.
That's right.
Yeah.
So, you know, that's... It hasn't been resolved.
That's right.
migration, emulation, which way are we going, but when you see exactly what they've done, they don't have it.
They haven't figured it out yet, have they?
No.
Not by a long shot.
Right.
They will, I suspect, I hope so, but when you think of the durability of the carrier here, we are in jeopardy of losing so much stuff, aren't we, because of the, maybe you disagree with that, but... No, my dissertation was on eight-inch floppy.
No kidding.
But then, of course, it was printed out.
Right.
And bound.
So I can no longer read the eight-inch floppies.
But if I had to, I could scan a copy.
An OCR is wonderful.
It works.
Yeah.
Well, my first book was written literally ten years ago.
I mean, it's a five-inch floppies.
Mm-hmm.
And I try and find out.
I still have an old computer, but precisely that reason, because I have a lot of results.
disks that I may want to look at at some point, and all my interviews, and I never did migrate them over to the smaller disks, but all the transcripts of all my interviews I have are stored on the logic, you know.
See, I wonder if the old computer can accommodate a zip line.
No way.
Oh.
It's only 25 milliseconds.
It's really old.
Well, I'm very sentimental.
I mean, you know, I've written two books on this.
I'm not going to get rid of it.
I love manual typewriters.
What can I say?
My husband does too.
I've been getting them on eBay.
My wife says, no, I'm a typewriter.
You must have a large house too.
You don't have a large house.
I want to keep it downstairs in my basement where I work, my little museum of typewriters.
I love them.
You don't have to put a piece of paper in it and you type it enough to set up the format.
create a file, I can put an envelope in there or a memo thing and type it up, you know.
There are advantages to simplicity.
We have my father's old typewriter, probably from the 1920s, when he lived in Germany, and of course it has the German keyboard on it, which has the Z in a much more prominent place.
So you can't do the QWERTY, G-E-R-T-Y.
There's only a couple of letters that switch around, and the Z, I can't remember what it replaces, but there's
There's a letter that we use a lot that German doesn't use much.
I just don't remember which one it is.
But, yeah, it's nice.
Let's go back to Baker.
So, it's partly just the insult that it was insulting, and I think it's not true, what he's saying about librarians and their motivation.
Well, he actually down there alleges
A conspiracy, you know.
I mean, I don't think he uses that phrase.
He's denied that he's making that statement.
But, you know, I've been to Leipzig.
He hasn't been.
I've walked in there, and I spent a day there.
I see the books that come in, that they do the page splitting on, and the mass deacidism.
You can pick up these books.
They will fall apart in your hand.
You can't tell me that these books are not in need of some attention.
Absolutely.
And, you know, Ken Carpenter, I quote him, we're walking through Widener one day.
And, of course, it's that intoxicating smell.
Anybody who loves books, it's like ambrosia, you know.
And Ken says, I quite agree with you, it is intoxicating.
He says, well, what you smell is decaying books.
That's what you smell when you walk into a big library, and that one, that smell that we all like is, well, what you are smelling, that's the smell of books decaying.
Right.
Now, maybe he's wrong on that, but I don't think he is.
No, no, I don't think he's wrong.
I think Baker's problem, another part of his problem, is that he is, well, he's misleading people.
As I mentioned, as I said, he's being naive.
And, you know, it's obvious.
He's making statements about something that he thinks he knows something about, but he doesn't know quite enough to make truly expert statements.
But they're sort of tantalizing, and so
Publishers like to publish them, and people like to read them, and go, oh, boy, there may be a scandal here.
Well, the newspapers really jumped onto this one, because, of course, what are the deal with the throwing away newspapers that document their own existence?
I'm thinking now, why did the newspapers jump on this?
And they're very naive.
I thought the review of his book and the New York Times was
not written by somebody who has any professional experience.
And he was using, oh, Jesus.
He said, I can't believe this.
He said this on the review.
I can't believe this.
They're doing this?
And he doesn't even question whether Baker's right or wrong.
Baker's article in the New Yorker about card catalogs.
Right.
I read that, and I read it very, very thoroughly.
I read the whole thing, and then I went back with a pen, and I underlined,
every place that was either flat out wrong or significantly wrong or misleading.
And the page was full of my pen marks.
Can you think of a few things that are particularly egregious in your view?
Oh, boy.
Not so much the card catalog thing, but the double fold, the preservation.
Well, the idea that you must.
preserved.
You know, these things have to be kept.
It doesn't make sense to keep some, it's just what we just said, it doesn't make sense to keep something that's falling apart.
Unless it has some iconic value, or some paratextual element that makes it, or association value, or if it's a last copy, or whatever.
I mean, there have to be some scenarios where you would keep something, wouldn't you think?
Well, perhaps, but then you'd probably better do something to it.
And if it's so valuable, and so
so much of an icon or whatever, there are ways of dealing with it.
You can deacidify.
They're all expensive.
You can deacidify it.
You can treat it page by page.
You can encapsulate each page to make it both usable and to prevent further deterioration.
I mean, there are all sorts of ways to deal with it.
But the material that is commonplace
that's not rare, it's widely held, it's widely reformatted, so you're not talking so much about the page of paper as making sure that you're able to get at the content at some point, including ads and classifieds and all those kinds of things, because you want to retain that content as well.
I mean, it would be nice if you could, but people who publish or who create newsprint
don't care that it contains acid.
Maybe you should write a book about paper manufacturers instead.
Well, he opens up his newspapers, and he says, look at this.
These are fantastic.
They haven't degraded.
These are the British Library.
Well, probably they've never been used either.
I don't know what the situation is.
But that was probably a mistake on their part, the British Library, to get rid of some of those newspapers.
They had the full runs of newspapers that really, New York Journal Tribune and Chicago Tribune copies.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Well, they have a space bill.
And I assume that they have a microfilm.
So they are able to offer the content.
And I assume that those weren't last runs, that somebody's got a full run of the hard copy.
Well, that's not necessarily a
Even the New York Times, you know, doesn't keep archival copies of their own newspaper.
That amazes me.
I had that, and he actually had that in his book, too.
And they have a microfilm copy, but even the microfilm copies don't do color, so they've been using color now for four or five years, so there's no color copy of the source.
They could use color microphones.
Well, Emma, it doesn't...
It's not all that reliable, was it, because there's a color.
Yeah.
I don't know.
To me, newspapers, I guess, it would be nice if there were one copy someplace.
Mm-hmm.
You know, a J-Store says that they do that, too.
If it's a last copy, they send it out to Chicago, you know, to that... CRL.
CRL, which is a fabulous place.
They write about that.
That's become a rare...
It's become a collection of rare things by default.
It's stuff that people have disguised.
That's right.
And that nobody else has except them.
But that's not really by default.
That's by intention.
The problem is that it's expensive to maintain.
And when I was at Hopkins, we were a member of CRL, and it cost us over $20,000 a year.
And I cost it out.
We used it very rarely.
And so the question is, how much are you paying to be able to tell your faculty members that they can have access, if they ever need it, to these things that you don't want to or can't get?
And in a time of economic constraint, that's one of the things that can go.
And I dropped out.
Once my provost, who was on the board for a short while, he said, no, you can't drop out until after I'm on the board.
So his term ended, and then I dropped out.
Yeah.
So I haven't had a chance to read this yet, but my sense is that he certainly is mounting a point-by-point rebuttal to Baker.
And I actually was doing, I found out about it, I was doing an Amazon search for Baker's book, which I have, but I wanted some bibliographical information on it.
And I came up with two double-pulls.
I said, okay, it's there.
was this book, which is coming out in August.
Have you read about this?
No, I haven't.
Meanwhile, you can take a quick look at it.
And I contacted him, and I said, look, I'd like to get this in my new book.
And he said, well, I'll have the publisher send you a set of the galleys.
But those are the unbound galleys.
And he's got a great bibliography in there, in fact, I have to say.
But he seems to have assumed the position as the...
a foil to Baker and this whole running dialogue.
What is he again?
Cox.
He was at the library school at Pittsburgh, University of Pittsburgh.
Okay.
He was the guy that they had in a debate at Civitts last year.
Right.
And Winston Tabb was there, by the way.
And he, at the very end, yeah, and he brought up something, and he spoke at length about the Library of Congress.
And I have my tape recorder running in half, so I have this on tape at home.
And I haven't had it, I haven't transcribed it yet.
But this is coming out in August from Greenwood in Connecticut.
Yeah.
It seemed that everything should be saved.
And, you know, he says here that that's an argument that has found resonance with the media and the public, but I wonder how long it will
have resonance with the media and the public, because everybody is exposed immediately when you start using the internet to a system in which everything is saved.
Well, not everything, because things get lost, too, but you run across so much junk.
Do a search for something and get 157,000 hits.
Yeah.
Well, now you're searching.
You're looking for the salient ones, and you have to start wading through all this trash there, you know.
It would be kind of nice to get the
15 that you're looking for.
Yeah, that's right.
But, you know, Tom Tanzel is, right?
He's at the Guggenheim.
Right.
But he's one of the great proponents of saving everything, even multiple paperbacks with different colored dust jackets, because these are different states of the same dust jackets, or different states of the same publication.
It depends.
I mean, I guess the thing is that there is such a thing as too simplistic an argument.
And that last example, from my perspective as director of the library, I wouldn't agree with that.
You don't save everything and not every copy, unless it's an area within which my special collections department has a special scope, special expertise.
And then, yeah, you do want to save everything.
When I think about my personal collection of science fiction, I probably want to save the different dust jackets.
But you're attacking as a bibliophile, not a librarian.
That's right.
And there are two different sets of standards that apply here, right?
But that's why I'm saying it's too simple just to say, flat out, everything should be saved, under all circumstances, anywhere.
You see what I mean?
Yeah, it can't.
I mean, even a library that has to
or that wants to support an academic community and therefore considers its collection one of record.
And most of us who are involved in academic libraries consider ourselves collections of record, and therefore we eliminate as little as possible in the interest of giving our community as broad an exposure to the collection or to the work.
Put it within your area of expertise, of course.
That's one of the Farmington Plan was a great idea, I think.
Did it divide?
Certainly gave people the attitude that I'll specialize in this, and you specialize in that, and maybe we'll have some overlap.
Undoubtedly we'll have some overlap, but at least your area of specialty will be something that you're going to collect in great depth.
The problem arises when you get things that no one is paying attention to, at least in a certain period of time.
I remember when I was at Hopkins, we were a member of RLG and the research libraries group.
And we were trying, there were only 35 institutions that were members at the time.
We were trying to divide up our collection so that every area of knowledge would have at least one library collecting and being responsible for making sure that everything was acquired, collected, and made available.
And the University of Michigan had
a sizable Turkish collection, but it wasn't a priority at that time anymore.
They had the collection, they weren't going to do away with it, but they weren't really putting a whole lot of effort into it any longer.
And when Dick Doherty was faced with the proposition that Michigan be made responsible for acquiring, cataloging, and making available everything in Turkish, he revolted.
He said, no, I'm not going to do this.
They probably didn't have any interest on campus for it, either, right?
That's right.
Maybe they didn't even have a curriculum that supported it.
Mm-hmm.
Must have at one time, or probably had at one time, but no longer.
Well, the professor probably died, or retired.
That's right.
I mean, there was probably a Department of One, you know, a person who taught this.
Yeah.
Had a moderate following, but he's gone now.
Because this happens a lot, I see, at schools.
It'll be some professor that has started a collection.
They've built around him or her, as the case may be, and then this person retires or whatever, and now this course is no longer, especially at the Liberal Arts, like Oberlin, I'm thinking of Lady English.
I forget what the collection was.
They had a really terrific collection.
They put it together, and then the guy retired.
Now there is no more, what are we going to do with all these books?
Well, maybe somebody will come back and teach this, but what they did is they found another school that could use it.
Oh, that's an interesting way to deal with the problem.
I think it is.
You know Bill Gosling at the University of Michigan?
Sure.
Well, he and I went to Bates together with classmates.
Oh, really?
That's great.
And so I spent a little time with him last week, and he invited me out to speak.
But they had an exhibition, fabulous exhibition.
It just opened last week, and it's their Netherlands Dutch Books Art.
So they've got a fabulous collection of Dutch things from the earliest.
days of print, you know, all the way through.
And then they had one item there on display, but it was representative of a collection of 1,800 books, which had just been given to them, gratis, from the Catholic University, and I can't pronounce it, but it's N-I-G-M-E-G-E-A-N in the Netherlands.
I'd never heard of it before.
But these are 16th, 17th century books.
I mean, some bindings, you can't believe them.
But what they did is these were duplicates from their own collection.
They didn't want to sell them.
They insisted.
They tried to find a match.
And the provisional, the woman that's in charge of special collections, she's going to give me the whole story.
I think it's a fabulous story of what you do with the collection.
All right, we don't want to keep, we don't have space for these 1,800 books.
Let's find somebody who wants them, who can use them, and they guarantee us that they will never sell them.
They will never sell them.
If they don't want them, then they have to do a similar kind of a thing, find another.
Well, Bill said, you can't believe this stuff, because it's all just, what it is, it's not the great high spots, but it's the next level down.
It's the stuff just beneath the high spots.
It just adds such depth, and they have a fabulous collection in Michigan.
And do they have a program?
They have a fabulous program.
I mean, I got a copy of the catalog.
I mean, it's a little catalog.
Somebody actually teaches Dutch.
That's great.
But apparently there are a lot of people out in that part of the world.
You know, Michigan has a whole history of it there.
I mean, they've been teaching it there for a long time, and have developed and built a major collection.
I know that Harvard was one of them.
Is that an interesting story?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
New to my experience, and I said, gee, I wonder if there were any other cases.
It's a fabulous story.
I'm totally going to write it into the book.
Yeah.
It's not... I'm sure it has happened.
It's happened.
But I like the way... I like the narrative.
I like the way they want to keep it together.
They found an American university.
They attached strings.
The strings had nothing to do with money.
They had everything to do with keeping it together as a collection.
Yeah.
If you find that it doesn't serve your purposes,
then return them to us or find somebody else.
Now, does that mean that they have to actually keep it physically together as a collection or just have a record of it so that if they got rid of it in the future?
You can't sell it, apparently.
They're adamant about selling.
But they're not prescribing how you handle it within your, or how Michigan handles it.
No, not at all.
Because that's another issue, you know, of
A benefactor will come along and say, I have this great collection, and I want to give it to you, but only if you put it in a room, keep it all together.
Change the flowers every day, you know.
Yes.
And that's always a difficult problem for a library.
But, you know, there are all kinds of ways of dealing with getting rid of I mean, they exist, but they have fresh flowers.
I mean, Mrs. Widener did that, didn't she, I think, at Harvard?
Yeah, in the Widener Room.
In the Widener Room, you know.
the small thing, I suppose.
Have you been there since the renovation?
No.
Oh, you should go.
Take a look.
I will.
It's quite something.
Well, I will.
I'll take it.
I have to be in Cambridge for a week or so, so I'll follow up.
Well, it used to be the cataloging department, when you walk up the steps, and the cataloging department was over there, and I had a desk there for a year, is now the periodicals, right?
And the catalogers were all in Central Square.
Wow.
And they apparently kicked up real fuss about it initially, and now they're quite happy.
Here we are, I think.
Oh, different ways of dealing with materials that you can't use any longer.
It's either out of scope or you've gotten a gift and it's a duplicate or whatever.
I mean, in Washington, we were quite fortunate because we were where all the embassies were.
So one of the things that we could do was to either respond to pleas from embassies of other countries for materials or just go to them and say, yeah, would you like
some of these materials.
Oh, yeah.
And as often as not, they'd take you up on it, and then they would pick them up, and they would pay for the shipping, and of course, that's all a big, it's a hassle.
Yeah, absolutely, yeah.
And we didn't have to pay for it, because then the handling and the processing is also
It's a burden.
But just the cost to put one book on the shelf.
I forget what it is.
It's like 50 bucks, or I don't know what it is.
Maybe more, but what it actually costs you to take the book, catalog it, and for the first time, it's not just the cost of the book.
And then there's the cost of taking a book off the shelf.
And what we had to do at Georgetown last year, we were running out of space.
We had a handful of years left, and we either had to form
a new unit that would be constantly identifying what should be weeded or what should be sent to storage, or make it a one-time mass project.
And I didn't have the wherewithal to put together a new unit, and so we did a one-time, one-year project in which we identified 150,000 books to be stored in the Washington Research Library Consortium headquarters out in Maryland.
And there were another, I think, five or eight or nine thousand books that were duplicates that were identified to be discarded.
Because another reason that a library discards books is because a professor ordered 15 copies to go on reserve when he was using it as a reserve textbook, and that course is no longer being taught.
So you don't need 15 copies on a shelf.
Sure.
Maybe two.
But at most.
I mean, we are academic libraries tend to have one copy of a lot of titles, unlike public libraries, which have lots of copies of a smaller number of titles.
And then when the title is no longer fashionable, maybe the whole thing goes away.
Yeah.
And Baker hasn't looked at that, has he?
No.
Has he talked about public libraries?
I don't think so, no.
I hope he doesn't target them.
No, I think he's out of it now.
I mean, I don't know what he's working on now.
I don't know.
But, you know, the whole preservation issue.
I mean, you're absolutely right when you say librarians.
Librarians are librarians not necessarily because they are constant readers.
I mean, that's the wrong reason to go into the profession.
But they do like books.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think so.
And they like serving people.
They at least like information.
The only professionals in the world that I know of whose mandate is to help you, is to encourage you to borrow things.
Yeah.
And we trust you, you know, to return it.
Amazing.
You know, how many people do that?
That's true.
And to find things, to really assist you with that.
It was incredible to me that he would take on the library and to be involved in this hoax about these books.
There were a million books.
A million books.
What was the number that he gave?
900,000 books of me have been pulped or whatever.
Where did he get that from?
Quite a bit.
Not a lot of books, a period of time, to be discarded.
I mean, especially books that have been used and are falling apart.
mean that these books weren't replaced by other copies, or new copies, or that they weren't duplicates.
I don't know.
Well, that's what I mean about it being a simplistic argument.
Yeah.
Well, it resonated with some people, and, but I'm not going to, I really have to walk a fine line, because I don't want to be Nick Baker's Boswell either, you know.
I mean, he writes his own books.
This fellow is, I'm really kind of pleased he's doing that.
Yeah, because you don't have to.
Well, I can quote him, though.
I don't have to, I don't have to, I can quote him myself, I can quote people like,
him and you, you know, and I'm the reporter here.
There's a wonderful paragraph here in the introduction, all of the reasons, all of Baker's arguments.
Do you want me to leave that with you and you could mail it to me in a week or so?
No, that's fine.
Partly because I'm leaving tomorrow.
You're leaving tomorrow and you're going to the Caribbean, that's right.
I'm glad to know about it.
Yeah, and it'll be out in August, so if you're interested in it.
I thought you'd kind of like to see the, uh... Jeanette Bastion.
I've never heard of him.
He writes well, too.
And he's got a website, Richard Cox.
And he just goes to search in Pittsburgh, you know Richard Pittsburgh.
And who's the publisher, I assume?
Greenwood.
Oh, that's right.
They do a lot of library-type things.
Yeah.
Serious news is generally made through a hook, preferably one with a famous name, before jumping on important societal issues.
Baker, a non-librarian and non-archivist, displaying a remarkable lack of understanding about what these institutions and their professionals do.
Well, you see, Baker's an academic, right?
No.
Isn't he?
Isn't he a faculty member somewhere?
No.
Well, he's behaving like a faculty member.
People mistake him for a faculty member.
He's lived in Berkeley because his father-in-law taught in the Classics department.
But he didn't teach Berkeley.
Oh, okay.
Now he's up in Maine.
He moved back to Maine.
I don't think he's ever taught.
He worked in Boston for some computer company before he was Nick Nicholson Baker, you know.
But, no, he's not an academic.
He looks like one, I have to say.
He's a very nice guy, by the way.
I mean, if you get beyond the...
But he's not an academic.
It is funny, because he does come across like one very much, though.
Yeah, he does, but he's not.
Yeah.
It's funny, because as I was getting ready to leave Georgetown last year, my advisory, my external advisory council, during their meeting, gave a dinner for me, and then gave me some gifts.
You know, certificate of appreciation, and this and that.
And one of them came up to me and handed me
something, a wrapped, something rather felt, it was a book.
I opened it.
It was double-fold, and I opened it up, and the guy had gone, had met Nicholson Baker somewhere, and had gotten him to autograph the book to me.
I screamed.
That's funny.
Yeah, it was very funny.
But, um,
I guess that's my bottom line, you know, it's too simplistic.
Why do you think that we haven't really heard from the community of librarians in response, have we?
Has that?
And maybe they just haven't been given voice in the media at all.
I suspect that that's the case.
It's probably a combination of things.
There have been some organizational responses.
I know ARL put something together.
I'm not sure what ALA did.
I was certainly paying attention to ARL.
And that's there.
One of the things is probably, if you respond to something like this, people are even more likely to believe it.
Or if you react too much, then people are going to think you have something to hide.
Or if you don't pay attention to him, maybe he'll go away.
Now, is Nichols still at Hopkins?
Yes.
Is that going to make a telephone conversation with him?
I quoted him in the patient report.
Winston Tabb, I might have spoken with him two years ago, and he mentioned this at the Simmons Conference last year, but he said, Elsie is exploring, that's kind of almost so quixotic, but there is this Norwegian approach, strategy, where they borrowed an underground cave up in the Arctic Circle,
The Deep Please Approach.
Have you heard about that?
It sounds vaguely familiar, yeah.
And he wants to do that.
Well, I call these people.
I talk to them, you know, and that'll be in this new book, too.
The Deep Please Approach.
In Norway?
Yeah, Norway.
I talk to them.
I didn't go there, but I did a telephone, and they've got a website so you can see what it looks like.
But Winston, how could you possibly do something like that with the United States, though?
Yeah, this is a little Norway.
I mean, we're talking...
60,000 new books a year that we publish in this country.
I mean, L.C.
gets thousands of things a day.
How could you possibly take one and send it up to a cave up in Alaska or something like that?
The facility that is most like that that I can think of in the United States is the one outside of Salt Lake City, where the Mormon Church has its archives.
It's right in a mountain.
It's rather spectacular.
Is that right?
There's some Mormon church that does this?
Yeah.
I'm going to be out there in September.
I'm going to have a great Salt Lake book conference and invite me out.
Maybe I'll take a look at it while I'm there.
Great.
Yeah.
Also, the University of Minnesota borrowed, under the banks of the Mississippi, they did their deep, their off-site story.
Oh, that's right.
Yes.
Yeah.
Which is really not off-site because it's the camp.
Now, that's perfect.
You know, I see limestone and sandstone caves.
Yeah.
I mean, you can actually get a book within an hour from off-site storage.
I don't know of any place that could do that.
Harvard can do it in a day.
Yeah.
But they say they can do it within an hour.
That's nice.
But it's right there.
Here's the campus, and here are the caves.
And they've got two of them, plenty of room to do others.
But that's a blessing.
It's a location.
And in Minnesota, they're used to digging tunnels to protect themselves from the cold weather.
Yeah, exactly.
Perfect.
It's Salt Lake, and of course it's in S. Salt.
I checked that out.
That's the Mormon Church that does that?
Yeah.
It doesn't have a name in the library or anything like that.
It's the vault for the genealogical, you know, all the microfilm and the archival stuff.
Because, you know, part of their faith is that you seek out your ancestors and
save them that way, and so all of these records are very important.
I'll check it out.
Listen, I want to let you... I'd like to go back and absorb this and maybe follow up with a future... Sure.
I don't feel that I've given you very much information.
I've certainly given you my feelings.
Yeah, well, that's good.
The feelings are good.
Maybe you can tell me a little bit more about how exactly you're doing the preservation thing.
Yeah, well, why don't I...
digital libraries and that kind of stuff.
I've written most of this, a lot of this.